# 2023-code-IFAC-Nonlinear Distributed Model Predictive Flocking with Obstacle Avoidance

## General

This repository contains an implementation of the algorithms and simulations described in 

> P.Hastedt and H. Werner, "Nonlinear Distributed Model Predictive Flocking with Obstacle Avoidance"

presented at IFAC World Congress, 2023.

It may be used to recreate and validate the simulation results and figures from the paper. To do so, run either of the two scripts `simulation.m` and `evaluation.m`.

Running the simulations can take up to 1 hour depending on the computer hardware.

## Simulation

For the simulations, an open source MAS library which can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/TUHH-ICS/MAS-Simulation) is utilized.

At the top of `simulation.m`, the algorithms, scenarios, and configuration files to be simulated can be selected by changing the `algorithmIndex`, `configIndex`, and `scenarioIndex` variables. The simulation results will be saved in the `simulation/out` directory and can then be used for evaluation.

## Evaluation

At the top of `evaluation.m`, the results of the paper can be reproduced by setting the `evaluationIndex`.  To evaluate additional data generated by the simulation, copy the `.mat` files from the `simulation/out` directory to the `evaluation/data` directory and add the name of the data file to the `simData` array at the top of `evaluation.m`. Data can then be added to the evaluation scenarios by adding the data index to the `dataSelection` array in the `Comparison/Evaluation` section of the `evaluation.m`script.

## Prerequisites

When downloading the code from Zenodo, the MAS-simulation submodule directory `simulation/MAS-simulation` will be empty. This can be resolved by either directly downloading the code for the paper from GitHub or by downloading the source code of the [MAS library](https://github.com/TUHH-ICS/MAS-Simulation) to the corresponding directory.

The code in this repository was tested in the following environment:

  * *Windows 10* Version 21H2
  * *Matlab* 2021a
